Servlets
	Servlets runs and enabled in a java server which is also a Java class. An HTTP servlet is a special type of servlet that handles an HTTP 
  request and provides an HTTP response, usually in the form of an HTML page. The most common use of WebLogic HTTP servlets is to create 
  interactive applications using standard Web browsers for the client-side presentation while WebLogic Server handles the business logic 
  as a server-side process. WebLogic HTTP servlets can access databases, Enterprise JavaBeans, messaging APIs, HTTP sessions, and other 
  facilities of WebLogic Server.
  
 Servlets and Java EE
		With Java EE metadata annotations, the standard web.xml deployment descriptor is now optional. The Servlet 2.5 specification, 
	states annotations can be defined on certain Web components, such as servlets, filters, listeners, and tag handlers. The 
	annotations are used to declare dependencies on external resources. The container will detect annotations on such components and 
	inject necessary dependencies before the component's life cycle methods are invoked. See Chapter 8, "WebLogic Annotation for Web 
	Components".

  		The Servlet 2.5 specification defines the implementation of the servlet API and the method by which servlets are deployed 
	in enterprise applications. Deploying servlets on a Java EE-compliant server, such as WebLogic Server, is accomplished by packaging
	the servlets and other resources that make up an enterprise application into a single unit, the Web application. A Web application 
	utilizes a specific directory structure to contain its resources and a deployment descriptor that defines how these resources 
	interact and how the application is accessed by a client. See The Web Applications Container.
	
JavaServer Pages
	JavaServer Pages (JSPs) are a Sun Microsystems specification for combining Java with HTML to provide dynamic content for Web pages.
When you create dynamic content, JSPs are more convenient to write than HTTP servlets because they allow you to embed Java code directly 
into your HTML pages, in contrast with HTTP servlets, in which you embed HTML inside Java code.
	JSPs are Web pages coded with an extended HTML that makes it possible to embed Java code in a Web page. JSPs can call custom Java
classes, called taglibs, using HTML-like tags. The WebLogic appc compiler weblogic.appc generates JSPs and validates descriptors. 
You can also precompile JSPs into the WEB-INF/classes/ directory or as a JAR file under WEB-INF/lib/ and package the servlet class 
in the Web archive to avoid compiling in the server. Servlets and JSPs may require additional helper classes to be deployed with
the Web application.

	JSPs enable you to separate the dynamic content of a Web page from its presentation. It caters to two different types of developers:
HTML developers, who are responsible for the graphical design of the page, and Java developers, who handle the development of software to 
create the dynamic content.


