What is JavaScript?

Javascript is a lightweight and dynamic computer programming language. It is a part of web pages that has an implementations of creating dynamic pages and allows client-side script to have a contact with the user. It is an object-oriented scripting language and cross-platform that is commonly used to create webpages interactive like clickable buttons , complex animations and popup menus.

Array, Date, and Math which are standard library of objects are included in JavaScript. JavaScript also contain the statements, operators and control structures which are termed as the core set of language elements. By supplementing additional objects, the core JavaScript could be extended for different kinds of goals or purposes.

Client-side JavaScript

It extends the language by the way of giving objects to control browsers and each of its Document Object Model. For example, its extensions it permits an application to put elements in an HTML form and it responds on to the user events like page navigation, mouse clicks, and form input.


Server-side JavaScript

It extends the language by the way of giving objects important to running JavaScript on servers. 
For example,its extensions gives continuity of information from one invocation to another invocation of the application, performs on servers file manipulations or allows interaction of applications with a database.



The meaning of this is that in our web browser, the power of changing the way the webpage looks like is handled by JavaScript.


JAVASCRIPT VS. JAVA

JAVASCRIPT

It is Object-oriented. Between types of objects, there are no distinction. You can dynamically add methods and properties to any object and through the prototype mechanism, the idea of inheritance is implemented.
In javaScript, there are no times where there is declaration of variable data types. It implements dynamic typing and it is loosely typed. You can not automatically write something to hard disk in JavaScript.


JAVA

Unlike in JavaScript, the declaration of variable data types is very important. It implements static typing and it os strongly typed. Java is class based and the objects are separated into Classes and instances considering all of the inheritance through the hierarchy of the class. You can not add dynamically the methods or properties in the classes and instances. Unlike in JavaScript, in Java you can automatically write into the hard disk.

JavaScript Execution Environment


1. Core JavaScript(EcmaScript) Language and API(Standardized)

ECMA TC39 committee standardized core language of JavaScript and it was termed as ECMAScript. On December 2012,initial standard was approved. ECMAScript known as the standard script language ,is created with the cooperation of Microsoft and Netscape but it is more derived from the idea of Netscape's JavaScript. It is object-oriented where context or objects of any of specific domain like the idea of a "document" can be added.
ECMAScript is commonly used on non-browser environments such as node.js.

Ecma TC39 standardized ECMAScript Internationalization API Specification that is an addition to the ECMAScript Language Specification. The API gives collation of things such as number formatting, string comparison, and date-and-time formatting for JavaScript applications. The API also let applications to pick a language and it tailors it to the functionality to each of their needs. In the Intl object , you can track the status of implementation on the browers.

2. (Traditional) Browser Object Model API (Non-standardized)
Browser Object Model (BOM) has no official standards.
The modern browsers nowadays have implemented almost the same properties and methods for JavaScript interactivity that is why it is often known as properties and methods of the BOM.The browser is represented by Window object. Window object has a lot of self-contained properties. For example, status that explains the current text of the status bar that is found on the bottom of the browser which provide and reflect access to the browser. Window object’s supporting objects are as fascinating as its immediate methods, events and properties.Window object's supporting objects includes Document,Frame collection, Screen, Navigator, Timing,Location,History,Popup Alert and Cookies.For the Document object, it represents the document that is currently displayed.The frames inside the current window is represented by the Frames collection.For the history list of the browser, it is represented by the History object . The current URL that the browser is displaying is represented by the Location and for the Navigator object, it does represents information about the browser itself like the version number etc.

3. Document Object Moddel API
The glue between the ECMAScript and DOM technologies is provided by the WebIDL specification.

The Document Object Model is an independent on language convention for interacting and representing with objects in XHTML, XML  and  HTML documents. It is cross-platform. The addressing and manipulation of objects in the Dom Tree is done by the use by methods on the objects. It was the W3C who standardized it and it defines the language-agnostic interfaces which abstract the XML and HTML documents as objects.It describes the mechanisms to have a control on this abstraction. 
The DOM includes a tree model which is the document structure ,the DOM Event architecture in DOM core such as Element, DOMImplementation , DocumentFragment, Node, Document, Event, EventTarget. There is a few accurate definition of the DOM Event Architecture together with the specific events in DOM events and some things like DOM Traversal and DOM Range. For ECMAScript, they see the objects of DOM specification as "Host objects".

In the terms of the DOM, HTML is determined. It describes the meaning of the elements.  HTML is on the upper layer on the concepts of the abstract in the DOM Core. The HTML DOM includes things like the className property in the elements of HTML or on the APIs like document.body. The restrictions on the documents is also defined by HTML spefication, for example, it is mandatory to have all children of a ul element to be li elements. For short it forbids using attributes and elements that are not described in the standard.

4. Miscellaneous JavaScript Web APIs

Some important miscellaneous javaScript web APIs are IndexDB, Geolocation, Push Notification ,Local Storage, Web Sockets,Web workers, Service Workers, XMLHttpRequest(AJAX) etc.


